A NETFLIX DOCUMENTARY
Morals
are behaviors that society judges.
Ethics
are behaviors that your conscience judges.
Each person.
depending on where
and when they were born.
draws a line
and says here to here is good.
and here to here is bad.
And what's craziest about this
is when you get close to that line.
And that's why you decided to rob a bank?
Why did you do it?
Why did I rob a bank?
That's a question
I've asked myself many times.
I think the most reasonable answer is
the significance of death.
At some point in the history of humanity.
they realized life was very limited.
since suddenly we passed through here
and didn't leave anything behind.
Therefore. I believe
the significance of death
can come in two forms:
as children
or as art.
That's what transcends death.
a book you write. a painting.
a pyramid.
an artistic theft.
I believe that. in this aspect.
the significance of death.
realizing that life is finite.
is another reason
that also led me to this.
Four heavily armed criminals
enter the bank with the intent to rob it.
There's a lot of tension in San Isidro.
A hostage situation.
The Falcon Group intervened. and
the area is surrounded. We're there live.
The famous Falcon Group
doesn't know the safes are underground?
Let me continue speaking.
All the hostages have been released.
and no criminals have been arrested.
They looted 143 safety deposit boxes.
Ninety-five million dollars.
Maybe they're really smart guys.
but no matter how long it takes.
they'll have a nice story
to tell their cellmates in jail.
The most spectacular robbery
in Argentinian criminal history.
Some people called it
"the robbery of the century."
A police officer who got in told me.
"They vanished into thin air."
- All right. Fer.
- This again?
Tell me what you want me to say.
FERNANDO ARAUJO
THE ARTIST
2003... Yeah. it was 2003.
I was the happiest man on earth.
If you had surveyed everyone.
I'd be the happiest.
I'd found
a calling.
Suddenly. I wanted to make art.
For this. all I needed was
a 50-square-meter studio.
A place set up
to be able to aggravate my senses.
At that time.
visual arts.
martial arts.
cannabis arts...
I was writing a book
about the benefits of cannabis
and cultivating it indoors.
It was an entire year off.
full of a lot
of experimenting and craziness.
I found myself in states
where I didn't know
if it was day or night.
I was doing painting.
the book about growing indoors.
Control it.
I had found a purpose and I loved that.
What I didn't imagine
is that after developing
these plants indoors.
I was gonna have
a pretty important revelation.
And...
I decided to rob a bank.
I didn't know how yet.
but one thing was sure.
There had to be some art in it.
And that idea began to take hold of me
to the point that it was like.
"To hell with the paintings."
and the only thing
I did from then on. 24/7.
was think about how to rob a bank.
My name is Luis Mario Vitette Sellanes.
I'm Uruguayan. I'm 65 years old.
I was born in a place with good habits.
with a really good economic situation.
I define myself as a burglar.
And what's a burglar?
A burglar knows a little about jewels.
a little about locks.
and a little about art.
a little about everything.
Although my first crime
didn't have anything to do with robbery.
I got to know jail. real jail.
And anyone who knows jail
is not the same when they get out.
And you learn all kinds of crimes.
And you're gonna become a criminal.
Rufi!
Rufián!
Charlotte!
One day I went on a short trip.
and I said. "I'm not coming back anymore."
I traveled to the Republic of Argentina.
What does a fugitive
going to a foreign country do?
He connects with criminals.
LUIS MARIO VITETTE
THE ACTOR
Maybe we all. at some point.
think about robbing a bank. you know?
We watch movies.
but this idea started to take hold.
I had to share it with someone.
And it was with my shrink.
The first thing I said to Jorge.
I remember. is. "I'm gonna rob a bank."
"Why a bank?"
Well. if it weren't a bank.
it'd be a casino.
Go there. a casino...
I'm not against capitalism.
To me. it's a great system that works.
The only thing is
I wanted a chunk of the business.
I wasn't gonna found a bank.
I was gonna rob it. as Brecht said.
At that time. he thought
it was part of the cannabis delusion.
all these ideas he'd been hearing from me.
He said. "Okay. all good.
Let's leave it at that."
So I started looking for a bank first.
I live in Acassuso.
a place where I was born. where I grew up.
There was a bank on Libertador and Perú.
and I said. "This is the bank."
The Acassuso Río Bank.
BANK
Well. my name is Rubén de la Torre.
People call me Beto.
I was born
in the Constitución neighborhood.
I went to Catholic school.
I was there until I was 12.
I was even an altar boy.
helping at Mass and everything.
but when I'd leave church.
we'd go out to do some mischief
with friends because they were
a lot like me.
It all started as an adventure.
Later it became a habit
and kept going until we'd steal some cars.
Then they caught me and I went to Devoto.
and I was put
with some of the worst people
who had stolen guns
and did attacks and commando-style hits.
I got on board with them. let's say.
Theft and crime also became a vice.
It was like.
filling a void. I don't know.
But it was something I was missing.
BETO DE LA TORRE
THE THUG
A bank can be robbed
when it's open or when it's closed.
When it's open. that means go in
with guns...
and try to get to the vault.
Something that's impossible.
The employees.
the private security have a button.
And automatically. after a few minutes.
you're surrounded.
and you can't even take the coins.
Already. using guns
wasn't my style
for what I was trying to do.
something artistic without violence.
So obviously I went with the other option:
when it was closed.
And when it's closed.
the way to do it is with a hole.
And this was the idea I developed.
When you think of something like this.
you can't call your friends like.
"Do you wanna do this?"
I mean. let's say. no.
You have to find the right people.
My motto is "intelligence over gunpowder."
Sebastián García Bolster.
I'm Sebastián García Bolster.
And I don't know why. but
they call me "the Engineer."
SEBASTIÁN GARCÍA BOLSTER
THE ENGINEER
I've lived my whole life in Martínez.
a typical middle-class family.
I would see a device
and think about
how I could get better results
or more energy. more power.
I studied. finished high school.
electrical technician.
and then I started engineering. I quit.
I started a motorcycle repair shop.
From the repair shop.
I changed it until it became
purely and exclusively
a Jet Ski repair shop.
Fernando went to the same school as me.
the San Isidro Tech School.
He was a year older than me.
We became friends.
We went on vacation together.
Fernando suggests I do this.
I didn't steal. I never stole.
But robbing a bank was all right.
Return our savings!
I worked my whole life.
My family always suffered
because of banks.
Stealing is bad.
but stealing from a bank that did
so much harm to people isn't so bad.
He tells me about it.
and I didn't say. "No. you're..."
"No. yeah. whatever technical
or mechanical thing you need.
count on me to do it."
As a condition. I don't take risks.
If it's not perfect.
I don't get into it.
I was gonna rent a house
that was four blocks away.
make a tunnel.
and get to the basement of the bank.
because the vault was down there.
But it wasn't that easy.
What if it collapsed on me?
Because...
Come on. Let's be honest.
I've never dug a hole
other than to plant weed.
At the same time. I realized
that when you get inside.
there are motion sensors.
I spent months there
figuring out how they worked.
I designed some suits
that could get by them.
It worked.
That's how Mr. Caterpillar is born.
But getting past
the motion sensor system wasn't important.
It was the vault itself.
This insanity. which
I was sure I was gonna solve.
was pretty complicated.
So I fell apart.
At one point. I say it can't be done.
It can't be done.
I'm overwhelmed.
I had invested a lot of time.
knowledge. and money buying stuff.
And. well. this still wasn't working.
I don't figure it out.
Hope was born again.
A new idea was born.
Automatically. at three in the morning.
I left to look for
an Internet café to go online
and see if anyone
had had this idea before.
It was much more daring.
A high-flying performance.
And the idea was very simple...
mixing the two methodologies:
when the bank is closed
and when it's open.
Go in.
simulating an in-and-out robbery.
go to the registers.
wait for the police to surround us.
and use the tunnel.
not to enter. but to leave.
No one had ever done anything like this.
And
when you're a trailblazer.
you have a huge possibility of success
because people aren't
ready for something new.
I was very happy before when I discovered
that art and 50 square meters
worked well for me.
But this was part of that installation.
Fernando would come and tell me.
"Hey. I thought of this thing to do this."
Every problem we had.
we had to evaluate various possibilities.
from his point of view.
from mine.
as if it were a movie.
as if it were an idea
of something in the future to be built.
We're gonna do it like this and this.
The thing I do then is...
Well. what's the ground
in the northern part of Acassuso made of?
So that's where I started investigating.
and I remember some workers
were making a drainage tunnel in Olivos.
I go. "Hi. How are you?
I'm an architecture student."
"One question. Can't this collapse?"
He says. "No. the deeper it is.
the harder it is."
Okay.
Upon leaving. I observed some circles
left on the street from the work.
The next day.
I go to calle Perú.
I see a circle this size.
I see another.
I couldn't believe it.
The same circles I'd seen
at the construction site in Olivos.
I mean. those traces every ten meters
that went down calle Perú.
which borders the bank.
were telling me there was
a drainage tunnel below.
And suddenly I find the end of this drain.
Ten blocks from the bank.
I walk about 100 meters in. and I find
a round drain. six meters in diameter
which went through the bowels of the city.
An incredible sight.
And that's where a new stage begins...
called "Donatello Project."
Donatello.
not after the Renaissance artist.
but after the Ninja Turtle.
They were in drainpipes
doing martial arts.
and they were green like weed.
If you walk for 20 minutes
in a dark tunnel
and suddenly I stop you and ask.
"Where are you?"
How should I know? It had to be measured.
One. two.
three. four...
eleven. twelve...
twenty-four. twenty-five...
You know. I never knew
I was gonna study
the cotangent of something
until I decided to rob a bank. Incredible.
It's like all the stuff I studied
in my life was all over the place.
and it suddenly came together. you know?
The cotangent was
the 69 degrees that were necessary
and also the distance
from the hypotenuse. 15 meters.
DRAINPIPE
69 DEGREES
TUNNEL. 15 METERS
UPPER CAMERA
BASEMENT
Fernando and I did this whole first stage.
We started to do the first chamber
with pegs and lights.
To make. for example.
a hole kind of like this.
the size of the end of a two-liter bottle.
it takes an hour.
It was impossible.
So I had to bring a 220-volt generator
and use an electro-pneumatic drill.
LOWER CAMERA
2 METERS
DRAINPIPE
Later we realized there was no more money.
and we didn't physically
have the time to do it.
so we needed someone to help us
financially as well as manually.
And the second participant is the Doc.
Again. I don't want any heroes.
THE DOC
He had a relative
who was involved in crime.
in the big gangs of the '90s.
Violent people going in with guns.
Suddenly. we had more firepower
than the closest police station.
I know the Doc.
and he seemed like a thoughtful person.
He was a lawyer.
So I was at ease.
We still needed people.
I say we need to look for another person.
and that's how the Doc
introduced me to Beto de la Torre.
I always was in contact with the Doc.
So. at one point.
he meets me at a gas station
and says. "I'm gonna introduce you
to someone. a friend."
Then he introduces me to Facha. Fernando.
A character
who's shocking. strong.
and accustomed to doing things
with violence.
an explosion of gunpowder.
"Look. I don't have
a lot of cash to go around."
He says. "No. but I have a truck."
"I'll sell it.
and we'll buy the materials we need."
But things weren't moving along
at the speed my anxiety was.
I was on this 24/7. and the others...
The Doc had his trials.
Sebastián had woman troubles.
Beta had gout.
His legs were swollen
and he couldn't walk.
I needed another person
who had free time when I was free.
Stealing in Argentina was really easy.
I hung out with all kinds of people.
And I ended up with a "Spider-Man" gang.
So we climbed.
lowered ourselves down.
went up to the 18th. 20th floor.
looking for where people kept their stuff.
When they contacted me.
we agreed I'd come cut open safes
where we'd split half a million dollars.
I come walking from calle Libertad
really well-dressed. like I liked.
and someone turns to me.
"Hi. Marito. How are you?"
"Hi. Doc."
The first thing he asks me is.
"Do you have money?"
"Yeah. of course." I told him.
"We need to talk."
"I have a very important job."
"I have the job of my life."
"Look. Let me tell you. Marito."
And I said. "Stop."
"If you're in. I'm in.
Don't tell me anything."
I remember that day
there was Sebastián. Beto.
and the Doc brought Marito.
And I meet this tiny person.
1.6 meters tall.
sticking out his chest
like a total shorty.
"Hi. buddy."
"How are you?"
He goes up to the studio
and starts looking at the paintings.
I had pictured the studio.
easels. oil paint...
This one was a shithole.
And they introduced me
to the guy with the idea.
some Araujo guy.
He takes me somewhere else
and says. "Look. I cultivate here."
He lifts up a little curtain.
and there are lights
and a ton of marijuana plants.
A dramatic character.
someone who's really
one of those snake charmers. you know?
I didn't really have a feeling.
Beto's greeting seemed really cordial.
And after. it was de la Torre.
I felt myself getting little goosebumps
from that boy named Sebastián.
who I later found out was García Bolster.
That's... I don't know.
Something tells you. "Watch out."
And one day this Araujo guy calls me
and says. "Can you come?
Bring comfortable clothes."
"We might get dirty."
I said. "My God.
where are we going? Am I on time?"
But curiosity
killed the cat.
The first time was truly terrifying.
Imagine yourself walking here. it's
full of excrement. cans. weapons. pipes.
Pipes. these illegal connections
from houses.
And when we got to the place
that was already done.
the first chamber.
I say. "Look for it and see where it is."
And the guy starts looking
at all the metal plates.
I actually saw a huge ring.
a tremendous circumference.
an enormous pipe.
ten meters full of metal plates.
"What do you see?" "Nothing. buddy.
What am I gonna see? I wanna go."
I opened the metal plate for him.
There was a chamber.
I say. "Look. Here we have
the Baywatch rescue cans."
"Baywatch rescue cans?" He says.
"Where are the girls?"
"No. the Baywatch rescue cans
are in case it suddenly starts raining."
"The water level is gonna rise.
and the only thing
we can do to save our lives
is grab a Baywatch rescue can.
bodysurf on the current.
and pray to whomever you wish
to get out alive."
- "I don't understand."
- "Honestly. I don't either."
I didn't want to look into it
too much either.
because I already saw this was not for me.
He puts the screws back in.
and we go back down the path.
Then we get to the end of the tunnel.
Well. I couldn't get that stuff off.
I threw some water from the drain
on myself. and it was worse.
My clothes. horrible.
We got in the truck.
We go along
an endless ledge until it ended.
and I said. "Turn here."
"Did you see where we were below?"
"Yeah. I saw."
"If we make the appropriate tunnel.
it takes us right to the bank's vaults."
Now I liked it.
The hand I needed appeared.
because the guy
was available 24/7 for this.
And that's when we started
months of work with Mario
climbing stairs.
electro-pneumatic drilling.
a lot of mate tea.
We left the cars next to the pipe opening.
We tied ropes to them and went in there.
A couple of us went down.
and the others stayed up. standing guard.
Forensic police were 30 meters away.
and we didn't know if someone had seen us
from some window and was coming down.
The setbacks were the materials.
We needed drill bits.
grinding discs. lamps. cables.
All the materials we were using.
We had to fix the generator.
buy tools.
- How much is it?
- 500.
Five hundred with batteries?
And then shoes. hard hats.
and life jackets for everyone.
I had my life.
and at night. well...
They ask me. "Did you steal?"
No. I worked. I treated it like a job.
Since leaving at night
and returning another day was normal.
my ex-wife. Alicia. was worried
Mario was coming to get me to go party.
We were actually going to make the tunnel.
Sometimes we'd also go out.
We spent close to a year
going in and out. A little more.
We still didn't have money.
We still didn't have an ego.
It was us. If a problem arose.
we'd resolve it between us.
I knew that in 15 meters
we had to arrive at the bank.
We were close to the concrete.
and suddenly...
I hit something different.
I hit a different density.
Suddenly I hit something hard.
and it was exciting. you know?
But will it be the bank's wall?
Have I done the calculations right?
Did I measure the bicycle wheel right?
And what if this is
the neighbor's basement wall?
What if on D-Day. I suddenly open the hole
and find the neighbor taking a dump
in the basement bathroom?
Well. to get better precision.
I made a two-meter drill bit.
So where the tunnel ended.
we drilled and came out on the sidewalk.
I say. "Yeah. this is my MacGyver."
The guy solved it for me
with 50 pesos with a Thursday special.
Otherwise. it'd cost 100.
With a normal hole. you have
the whole weekend to open deposit boxes.
Here.
we needed to open deposit boxes
as fast as possible.
So then Fernando says.
"Sure. a device like this.
like sheet-metal workers use. see?"
I say. "Yeah. all right. that's hydraulic.
Let's see what we can design."
We looked for
a standard mini hydraulic unit.
and based on the capacity
of that hydraulic unit.
I designed the cylinder.
the piston that makes it thrust.
And that's how we put the device together.
The back was telescopic.
so you could regulate the distance.
With that device. we were really safe.
We knew in seven seconds
we'd open a deposit box
and no one would hear it.
And that's how
the "power cannon" was born.
We all visualized going down the tunnel
to the drainpipe with the loot.
Now what do we do there?
The primary fundamental idea
was precisely to go to the riverside.
But basically. that's what
the police were gonna think.
The moment they found out
about our escape.
they were going to the river.
Therefore. this is where I say
we have to go the other way.
The other way was an advantage
because there were 100 places to get out.
Then. after scoping it out.
we found the best place.
14 blocks from the bank.
close to a corner
where we could park a car.
make a hole in the bottom.
and go directly through
without leaving the tunnel
or anyone seeing us.
Walking inside the tunnel was hard.
because everything
we had to carry was really heavy.
So we thought about raising
the water level to be able to sail.
So we made the dam.
A lot of iron. rope. wood.
and expandable polyurethane
to make it waterproof.
"FRONT VIEW"
6 METERS
We went to the surface.
and right then. a really big storm came.
After the storm. ten. 15 days later.
we went down to see the dam.
and it was gone.
The storm had carried it away.
I say. "No. stop.
That's it. We're gonna walk."
"I can assure you
we're gonna take advantage of this."
Enough already. I was done. But suddenly.
I say. "No. let's make the dam.
because when they find out
we had a dam and rubber boots.
it's gonna be terrible."
The idea of studying
how to get to a vault
or how to dig a tunnel
had now become
studying the psychology
of the Falcon Group.
Finding the manual. which was. let's say.
the hostage-taking protocol bible.
Listening
to police radio.
Therefore. I was beginning to understand
the times. methodology.
and things that were gonna happen
when suddenly.
from inside the bank.
they say. "They're robbing us."
For me. knowing the enemy
is when the war is almost won.
We need a specific truck
to be able to open a door on the floor.
I think we paid
five or six thousand dollars.
And Beto de la Torre took it
to a house he has in Wilde.
We modified the truck there.
We cut off part of it
so we could pass things through the floor.
We got to work.
and his wife was there. you see?
And I said. "What is she doing here?"
We were looking at each other.
How come this lady was here too?
"No. it's fine."
That's it.
That was the time I met Alicia Di Tullio.
ALICIA DI TULLIO
THE WIFE
Still. she didn't even know my name.
because at no point
did I introduce myself or anything.
But I was there.
We need a driver for the van.
The Countryman. Zalloechevarría.
A law man.
JULIÁN ZALLOECHEVARRÍA
THE COUNTRYMAN
After that. we added the Kid.
THE KID
"You'll be there on D-Day."
"The only thing you have to do
is point a gun and do what we tell you."
Yeah. imagine.
I spent 500 days thinking about this job.
I didn't do anything except that.
The first day I already knew
how to get the money from there.
but. nevertheless. the second day
I revised my achievement.
And the third day too.
How many times
did we revise our achievement?
I came up with the plan in September 2004.
Do you know what I honestly thought?
That by the beginning of 2005.
we'd be able to do it.
I never thought it was gonna be so hard
and take more than a year.
SCANZIANI TAILOR SHOP
Pants.
I was so in that I wanted to go in
even if it rained or was raining.
At that time. the only risk was
when there was a hostage situation.
someone brilliant.
someone who thought
we could escape through the sewers.
would block our exit. and bye.
we wouldn't be going anywhere.
I wasn't very focused the other day.
But I was determined.
When everything was discovered.
it was like
we were gonna create a novel.
It was gonna be the focus of the summer.
Our event's gonna be Friday. January 13.
Is anyone superstitious?
Very well.
JANUARY 13. 2006
D-DAY
I got up at seven in the morning.
I got dressed carefully
and got my shoes. shirt. and tie ready.
I went to pick up the Kid.
And we headed for the D-Day zone.
I remember being at a big table at night.
having absolutely everything
I needed to take.
totally sanitized of fingerprints.
Let's think about
and review the positions.
First. at 9:00 a.m..
Sebastián is gonna go down the drainpipe.
I started walking.
I got to the dam.
At the dam. I took the motor
and verified that everything
was in good condition.
And I pushed myself up
against the hole that went to the bank.
And I waited until they gave me the okay.
The Doc...
and Beto.
you're gonna walk in.
Alicia went with me to the place.
She dropped me off
on the corner of the bank
and left. She left the car
where she had to leave the car.
My car.
Now. the Countryman goes
and is gonna get in position
in the escape sewer
at 3 Sargentos and Libertad.
I parked.
We went walking
with the Kid for a block or two.
We found the Ford Escort
that was already waiting for us.
We stood there chatting.
both of us really well-dressed.
I had on my classic three-piece suit.
We passed by and saw the parked car
with Marito and the other colleague.
"Hi. How are you?"
I'm gonna arrive in this vehicle.
I'm gonna leave it. marked.
with some tire spikes in the backseat
so when the Falcon Group approaches.
they'll see it was our escape vehicle.
That January 13th. we go in.
I make sure everything's fine.
REAL SECURITY CAMERAS
RÍO BANK
The alarms. the security cameras.
and that's where I give
the present to the local police.
WALTER SERRANO
THE GUARD
During that time.
which seemed to pass pretty quickly.
I was really tired.
Moreover. I think I was even half asleep.
On the way. yeah. really slowly
and really smoothly. I put on some drops.
That sticky adhesive is a gadget we have
to disguise our fingerprints.
And we got
to the parking garage of the bank.
We get out really calmly.
And when we faced the door to go in.
the bunker policeman
signals to us and says that
at noon the employees go to lunch.
and that door stays closed.
So we picked up the pace with the Kid.
We went up the ramp.
We went right to the main door.
and the Doc and Beto
were just entering the bank.
I noticed someone wearing an apron.
I zoom in with that camera.
I get it with a camera from the front.
Right when this person starts walking.
you can see a gun at his waist.
I went in. I showed the gun.
Don't move. Let's go.
There were people waiting in line.
so I went...
Freeze.
...restrained the security guard.
I showed people. "All right.
this is a robbery. Everyone on the floor."
On the floor. This is a robbery.
Everyone on the floor.
"Look at the floor
and there won't be any problems."
"Everything will be fine.
but do what we say."
ESTELA MARIS
THE CUSTOMER
I see someone
with a salmon or pink-colored shirt.
I see he has a gun in his hand already.
Let's go.
Then I sound the alarm. I send the alert
that the bank is being robbed.
Second floor.
Marito and the Kid take it.
Watch out!
When you start working at the bank.
they give you training
in case these things happen.
What they say in the course
is that the modus operandi
usually is that they're quick. They last
one and a half. two. three minutes.
They're fast.
I remembered that.
I was on the floor and started to count.
LEANDRO
THE BANK EMPLOYEE
I see someone enter
and go towards the ATM.
He had a hat and overalls on.
I run out and grab him. It was Fernando.
I didn't recognize him 'cause
I hadn't seen him dressed like that.
The Kid and I got to the second floor.
Identical operation.
"Everyone on the floor.
This is a robbery."
Two more strides.
and I jumped over the glass.
and landed in the cashier's enclosure.
"The money! Let's go!"
I'm gonna get the police radio.
I'm gonna listen to exactly
when the police nearby arrive.
At that time.
we're gonna do stage one of the plan:
"Cuckoo."
What I'm gonna do is take a hostage.
wait for the first patrol car to arrive.
and pretend I want to escape
from the bank with him.
I'm gonna wait
until they tell me to stand down.
and I'm gonna go back inside.
And this action is
what's gonna stop them from thinking
we're gonna escape through a tunnel.
'cause if we wanna escape
through the door...
Once "Cuckoo" is done.
we're gonna close the bank door.
and that's when we go to stage two.
And that's when I heard the police siren.
and then you start
having a ton of questions.
because in the end. it's not
an in-and-out robbery. How does this end?
Ultimo momento.
They rob a bank in San Isidro.
Then we move on to stage three.
which is taking out
the guard in the basement.
This guy is the one
communicating with the outside.
He can't see or hear
anything from the vault.
We grabbed the manager.
We went to the bunker.
It was all a matter of seconds.
It sounds like a lot of stuff.
but it was all in seconds.
Come on.
Get out because we're going. All right.
From above. we hear them
start telling the policeman to get out.
He grabs me and says.
"Stay calm. Cop. surrender."
I say. "I'm not gonna."
And in no way
did he want to open that door.
In the event that he doesn't want to go...
we're gonna cover the windows
and one of us will drive him crazy
pounding on the windows.
Come out. All right. let's go.
The one in the overalls
gets a little irritated.
He grabs the operations manager
by the hair
and pushes her up against the window
of the bunker door.
I said. "Listen. buddy."
"I just got out of Sierra Chica.
and I'm going back.
so don't make this complicated."
"I give you my word as an old thief
that I will release you immediately."
"I came out to give you my word
I won't kill you." he was saying.
And the girl was telling him
not to leave 'cause they'll kill him.
That was ugly.
And... nothing.
Because he was working every day.
He's a guy who worked with you.
What if they shot him?
Come out of there. Let's go.
The operations manager says. crying.
already having a nervous breakdown.
to turn myself in and she hadn't
spent time with her granddaughter.
They're messing with your friends
and coworkers. you know?
They're threatening to kill one of us.
They're gonna kill another.
It makes you angry.
You feel angry and really helpless.
Let's go.
Tell him to come out.
I say to the person
in the gray suit. "I'll go."
"Stay calm. Don't touch the hostages."
"All I ask is that
you don't touch the hostages."
He opened the door.
He put the gun on the table
and the phone. his means of communication.
When I go out.
I put my hands up and surrender.
And he doesn't search me like a rookie.
He searches me like someone
who fully knows what he's doing.
I took his hands.
and we went down the stairs.
I took him to the door.
I put his regulation 9 mm to his back.
I took the magazine out
and flipped the bullet around
to prevent the rapid fire of the gun.
"Go away." "What?" "Go away."
We open the door for him.
And he left. We let him go.
We released the policeman.
I start to have doubts.
"Who are they?
What is the gang armed with?"
"Who did you call?"
Sergeant Serrano couldn't believe
he was gonna walk out of a robbery.
When I got closer to the chief
on the street. I saw the bank.
I look at the second floor.
I see this person in a gray suit
like this. showing a Nextel.
When he shows the Nextel.
I tell Gustavo it's mine.
He says. "How do you know?"
"It has a logo."
I say. "One of my daughters glued it on."
"It's mine. Call it 'cause it's mine."
First.
two people were gonna be
in charge of the negotiation.
the Doc and me.
Later. because I ham it up.
because of how I word things...
my theater studies.
and the way I deal with them.
the Doc said. "No.
Marito has to be the negotiator."
And that's how it went.
A fake mustache. a kippah.
some glasses. and a hood.
In my role as negotiator.
the newspapers started to say...
"The man in the gray suit."
Hello?
Yes. ma'am.
No. ma'am. I'm not Walter Serrano.
But I already freed your husband.
ma'am. so relax.
Yes. ma'am. I'm one of the thieves. Relax.
Calm down. please.
I'm gonna make them call you.
Calm down. ma'am.
Get off this line. please.
Immediately. I slammed
the phone on the glass
so this lieutenant would contact me.
And I said.
"Walter Serrano's wife called me."
"Please tell him to call her
because she's desperate."
Back to our live report
on the bank robbery
with hostages in San Isidro.
BANK ROBBERY
AND HOSTAGES TAKEN
Avenida Libertador
is blocked off for three blocks.
You can't be here. Go back.
And this has been restricted
even more for press access.
We've been put
almost a block and a half away
from the middle of the action.
The next step
is to close the parking gate.
Basically. if the police
go in the parking garage.
we won't succeed.
Why? Because we can't get
the "power cannon" out of the car.
After 12:30 p.m..
I feel like they start
to beep me.
and they say. "Break."
I punch and feel like they start
moving things on the other side.
That's because I hit
the back of a piece of furniture.
Then they couldn't find
where the hole I made was.
It's an important moment to see
the weirdo's face through that hole 'cause
it's our escape route.
I got in position there
to work on
the easier deposit boxes. let's say.
What do I mean by easier?
The ones with the least distance
between the hinges and the box.
The time was more or less calculated
to be able to open
400 deposit boxes in two hours.
1:03 PM
We're unaware of the kidnappers' demands
to free the hostages and surrender.
There's a stream
of patrol cars and officers.
but no solution to this issue is in sight.
We were watching a monitor. a TV
without audio. which is in all banks.
The media was already on top of it.
And at that moment. I look out a window
and see the guy with the radio antenna
pointing at me.
But he started to look
to the side. like this.
He'd look at me. look at the radio.
and look to the side.
I said. "What's going on?"
Like an old thief.
I think something's wrong.
He says. "Here comes the person
who's gonna negotiate with you."
"Who is it?"
"The guy with the beard." he says.
Miguel Ángel Sileo.
I was a major in the Falcon Special Forces
for the Buenos Aires police.
I was a negotiator
and a member of the tactical team.
MIGUEL SILEO
THE NEGOTIATOR
We park our cars. like normal.
And they got us up to speed.
They gave me the phone number
to the device inside the bank.
I get behind a kind of truck-like vehicle
with my partner.
who also covers me like a shield.
There I reach out.
And he starts to explain what happened.
It was an in-and-out robbery
that went wrong. and they were trapped.
They didn't want to hurt anyone.
but didn't want to go back to jail either.
"Look. buddy."
"I just did 15 years in Sierra Chica."
"So let's make this short and easy."
The negotiator.
the first-class policeman by profession.
knows I'm a first-class thief
by profession
when I said I was in Sierra Chica.
Beyond what's being said.
I also pay a lot of attention.
as do all the negotiators.
to their non-verbal signs. gestures.
This person was seated
and had crossed his legs.
So his posture didn't match
what was going on at the moment.
BANK ROBBERY:
THEY RELEASE TWO HOSTAGES
Normally when hostages are taken.
there's a lot of stress. adrenaline.
People yell and swear at us.
Listen to one thing.
Listen to me.
Take care of the crisis committee.
so I can take care
of the situation in here. All right?
I said. "Okay. release someone
who's nervous. a victim."
Keep in mind
I got rid of my natural enemy.
I let police officer Walter Serrano go.
That's a gesture of goodwill.
Don't ask for more hostages.
Done. All right.
I turn on the cell phone.
We're all looking at each other.
And my boss said.
"Buy us some time. Sileo."
It was the same thing I wanted. time.
Time to open deposit boxes.
I wasn't stopping to see what was in them.
If it could be opened or anything.
I was already onto the second row.
I was meticulous. breaking all the locks.
While I was breaking
all the deposit boxes.
someone from the bank appeared
and yelled at me.
"What are you doing here?"
I look at the person like this.
Obviously I had a mask on.
And Fernando says.
"You don't give any more orders.
I give the orders now."
And the person left.
But I was like. "Oops. they got me."
2:17 PM
We had a lot of hostages.
Later. we found out there were 23.
Don't be dumbasses.
There was one who came
and was a little more violent
in the way he was and how he treated you.
Another came saying. "Stay calm.
The district attorney is coming."
"We're negotiating and
turning ourselves in. Stay calm."
There was a really nervous man.
He was about to explode.
He wanted to pee.
He was kind of whining.
"My man?" "I can't go." "Why?"
"Because they're looking at me."
"Well. go on the stairs. buddy. Please."
This situation started
to make people nervous.
"What's wrong. crazy man?"
"I can't go. I'm nervous."
No. buddy. Come on. You're leaving.
All right. come here.
Let's go. Now.
We opened the barricade.
and we threw him out. literally.
Immediately. the elite corps came.
hugged him. threw a few punches.
because they didn't know
if he was a hostage or a thief.
Are you pregnant. ma'am?
Okay. you're leaving. Come here.
There's movement here
in the Río Bank area.
Two people have been released.
a man and a woman.
We're seeing the moment when the woman was
released by the criminals
who were holding hostage
Río Bank employees as well as customers.
We found out there are intense
negotiations with people from the police
who are trying
to convince them to give up.
BANK ROBBERY
THEY FREE TWO HOSTAGES
I had two radios.
One on the police's channel
and another to communicate
with my partners.
And I had another.
which was a really cheap radio.
the kind that comes in a pair.
That radio. which came with channels.
I remember starting to scan
and listen to the Falcon Group.
I remember grabbing Mario
and saying. "Listen to this."
I was listening to the snipers
send info to the head of the operation
and the head of the operation
responding to the snipers.
I heard them say...
"I have the one above."
"I have the one below."
That means if the boss says. "Now."
de la Torre and I
get a bullet in the forehead.
And de la Torre saw them.
He came and took the Nextel from me
and said. "Get those guys down
or I'll kill someone live."
I don't remember the words well.
because we agree it was
an extreme and intense situation.
So those people get off the roof
at the request of the man.
But there were three Falcon snipers.
He never saw them.
3:10 PM
We determined a certain amount of time
for the work at the bank.
Opening the deposit boxes
and moving the hostages.
In that amount of time.
we'd opened 143 deposit boxes.
The others were gonna take the time
to modify the equipment.
all of which we didn't plan for.
So it was decided we were leaving.
Once the two hours were up.
we get in position
to lower the loot as fast as possible.
I get a call from Araujo.
Let's go. Pizza stage.
So I take one more call.
He says they're gonna turn themselves in.
"All right. you're right. buddy.
This isn't going anywhere."
And they wanted
to eat something
because they'd spend many days
at the police station
and wouldn't be able to eat.
"Bring me some pizzas."
"Bring me some sodas.
We'll eat and turn ourselves in."
I clarify they weren't fugazzettas.
In a report. I think one of them said.
"If I ask Sileo for a fugazzetta.
five fugazzettas.
he'll realize there are five of us.
and in five minutes enter the bank."
It was gonna be like that.
From that point.
once his request was received
and the exchange was to be made.
communication was lost.
What am I gonna do in the meantime?
I'm gonna put the guns
that I'm gonna be leaving in the vault.
And I'm on to the "Hair Bleach" stage.
This is five liters of bleach
spilled to avoid DNA.
And this is the hair.
I'm the last one out with Araujo.
With a rope. he wedges his foot down
and brings the piece of furniture.
García Bolster tried starting...
He couldn't get it to start.
And Vitette was really nervous
and started going. "Don't put
starter fluid in it. You'll flood it."
With the loot and a motor
that won't start. I go crazy.
Vitette tried to start the motor
and couldn't get it to start.
so they start to row.
We were all going in the one up front.
which had the motor.
except Araujo who was gonna
take the alternative inflatable raft.
I remember throwing myself
in the rear raft
on top of the money.
Over bags and bags of money. like this.
We passed by a sewer
really close to the bank.
We saw shadows and heard sounds.
And suddenly. the motor started.
We went the last 14 blocks
with the motor running.
We warned the other partner.
the Countryman. who was up above.
that we were already below.
So he lifted the cover above
with a rod 'cause it was heavy.
I think I was the last to arrive.
They were all in the truck.
Nothing else would fit.
just people and bags.
We'll load the loot.
And voilà.
We had everyone in a caravan
going to where we'd split the money.
My idea is they were barricading
the entrances and were gonna resist.
We no longer heard any noise.
There was no one.
We started to look at each other.
I was thinking they're gonna pose
as hostages and change their clothes.
They're upstairs waiting for the police.
We arrive at the place
where a gate opened.
and we started unloading the bags.
And bags...
I didn't want to mess with your fantasy.
And more bags.
Right away in the beginning.
I wanted to turn on the TV
to see where they were.
The Falcon Group still hadn't gone inside.
We had all the bags in that place.
And suddenly.
"At this time. they're going in..."
And we saw live
how the group was going in to catch us.
"Police!"
The door opened. and we went in.
I thought I was
going into combat at that moment.
THEY RELEASE THE HOSTAGES
7:12 p.m.. we can see movement
of police officers
and the Falcon Group who are going in.
A mallet to the window.
and in two seconds
they took over the branch.
This is where
you start to classify who is who.
They're all suspects.
They searched all of us.
with our hands up.
And when we left.
my mom was outside with her husband.
And. well. they let them see us.
Nothing else.
I found my husband and my son.
A really emotional moment.
Anabella. the criminals.
the four criminals. were they arrested?
What happened exactly?
What do you know from there?
Yes. the four criminals were subdued
who were found taking this bank branch.
It just ended recently.
moments ago at exactly 7:20 p.m.
They started classifying people
as bank employees and customers.
Well. the line started to get shorter
until there wasn't anyone else.
I remember we put
all the money to the side.
A hundred thousand dollars.
we made a little pile.
A hundred thousand dollars. A little pile.
The room started to come along.
At one point. I was sitting on a mountain.
a mountain of bundles of $10.000.
In San Isidro.
the hostage situation is over.
We're live after seven hours.
The hostages are free.
and no criminals have been arrested.
HOSTAGES FREED
THE THIEVES HAVE ESCAPED
"It's all here. Great!
What joy! Let's split it."
Someone said. "A calculator?"
No. buddy. No calculators.
We did the math.
and I remember there was $20 left over.
And since there was $20 left
and there were five of us
and we didn't have change.
Vitette tore it up.
There were people looking in the rooms.
because people were
cleared out of the bank one by one.
When someone says. "This piece
of furniture doesn't go there."
they realize.
They move the furniture and find the hole.
- Where are you going?
- To the left.
The boss wants to go in.
There's a homemade door and a booby trap.
The explosives brigade is called in.
specialists in this area.
The four criminals escaped
through the bank's storm drain
with the loot.
Anabella. I mean. here we're getting
complete misinformation.
They even gave versions
of the arrest of the four criminals.
only to now say
they escaped with the loot.
They tell us
there are people in the trees.
and we're gonna look in the trees.
They say there are people in the water.
we'll ask the coast guard to help.
It'd be around five.
it was clearing up.
At home. all relaxed. the TV had no idea.
The question was.
"How much did they take?"
No! "Where are the thieves?"
We all wanted to go. I imagine.
I wanted to go. They all wanted to go.
So everyone grabbed
what was theirs and left.
Really. there wasn't even a goodbye.
"See you tomorrow." No.
We go and go
and don't see each other again.
So we said goodbye forever.
We took my truck and went with the Kid.
We left on the Pan American Highway
in my truck with the windows open
and the music turned up.
And in the seat in back were four bags.
His was a little smaller than mine.
but four garbage bags full of money.
I went in my car to get the bag.
put it in my trunk. and went home.
I'm a really calm person.
No...
It's not like
then I went to a crazy party.
No. I stayed at home
and had a ton of money.
I took the Kid. dropped him off.
and we said goodbye.
From there I went back a few blocks
and went to Santa Fe 2590
where I lived
on the 13th floor in apartment 47.
I went to my bedroom. took off my clothes.
I went for a walk and washed up.
I don't even think I dried off.
and I just opened those bags.
I just had real contact with the money
by having so much money in my hands.
But it wasn't mine. It was everyone's.
But now this. that I had here
at my house. was mine.
I arrived and I think it was my birthday.
They were all waiting.
Mainly Alicia. her eyes wide like this.
The feeling in the moment
is that I left the bag of money there
and everyone was looking at me.
And now what?
I couldn't sleep for two days.
We had talked about
how Araujo wanted a little poster.
I tell him. "If the police see the poster.
it's because we left."
"If we left. we're counting money."
"And if we're counting money.
why provoke them?"
"Pull their tail?"
They left the traces of a fake escape
and booby-trap bombs
and a message mixed with irony
and the search for popular significance
which said...
In a rich man's neighborhood...
Without guns or grudges...
It's only money...
And no love.
IN A RICH MAN'S NEIGHBORHOOD
WITHOUT GUNS OR GRUDGES.
IT'S ONLY MONEY AND NO LOVE
One of the main things
that thieves always have.
and this is why they go down.
is ego and vanity.
After such a robbery. do you think
these guys aren't gonna talk about it?
Last Friday the 13th was a dark Friday.
as the superstition goes. you might say.
They didn't take long
to suspect corrupt police officers
in the face of
a string of violent acts in the suburbs.
No matter how much they search.
they can't find them.
The work of investigators
has collided with a flawless plan so far.
The Río Bank thieves
have left nothing to chance.
Maybe they were really smart guys.
COMMISSIONER OSVALDO SEISDEDOS
But we at the Ministry of Security.
in the justice system. and at the police.
also have very intelligent investigators.
and no matter how long it takes.
these individuals will be arrested
and will have a nice story
to tell their cellmates.
I planned my vacation
to the same place I've gone my whole life.
I knew everything had turned out perfect.
No one had seen me.
I had not been recorded on any camera.
I was really calm.
Let's say. I thought there was no risk.
After 15 days.
what I had expected started.
going to San Juan.
TO BAUCHAZETA
I went with alpine equipment.
cans of tuna.
books by Osho. and a police scanner.
The weeks after the crime.
I came to Uruguay.
I made the rounds to see my family.
did some good deeds.
I was free. I had money. It was the best.
GOLD
Love
I had the cell phone shop
that was doing really well.
For her part. Alicia also had her work.
The two stores were working.
I started walking around
to start getting rid of evidence.
One day. I come
and I find my bag's out of place.
"What happened here?"
I saw there were
considerably fewer bundles of dollars.
"Listen. Did you take something?"
"Yeah. I took
five or six little bags with me."
Five little bags was 300.000 dollars.
The days passed. Another day. I put
some sterling pounds in a drawer too.
One day I open the drawer.
and they were gone.
"No. I also took them."
"You don't have to touch anything."
And an argument started.
"Bring them back." "No."
"Bring it back now." "No.
An argument. I left home.
I take what was left. go somewhere else.
and she calls the cops on me.
I saw him.
COURTHOUSE
SAN ISIDRO
The cameras pointed at the bank.
and he was going up the stairs.
I recognized his clothes
and I recognized him.
ALICIA DI TULLIO'S VOICE
Eighteen years with someone...
I couldn't see his face.
but I knew it was him.
Alicia Di Tullio was
a confidential witness.
who spontaneously appeared
at the prosecutor's office.
claiming she knew the facts.
GASTÓN GARBUS
THE DISTRICT ATTORNEY
Specifically. that her husband
had participated in the heist
and that she knew
where some of the loot was.
In the lawsuit.
there was no objective evidence
that allowed us to say
what happened between them.
I sense it has to do with money.
and not out of spite
because there was another woman.
There was this whole theory of resentment.
which is a huge lie.
If I had another woman. I'd go by.
leave her some money. and leave.
I wasn't going anywhere
without my wife and son. but okay.
She thought otherwise.
She valued money more than family.
And that's how it was.
That's the tragic outcome of my story.
Well. I think. of everyone's.
Di Tullio describes everyone
and avoids giving names.
I went with my daughter
and young grandchildren to a beach house.
And I took two phones.
One from Uruguay
and another from Argentina.
Then my Argentinian phone rings.
and my alarms went off.
"Hello?" The Doc.
"Beto's wife is betraying us."
"She wants us all
to give her 300.000 dollars each."
"Otherwise. she'll turn us in."
"Doc. she can go fuck herself.
I'm not giving her anything."
"Let Beto fix what he has to with her.
Don't get me involved."
But I was left
with the uneasiness of the decision.
The man arrested
was identified as Alberto Torre.
who spent almost 20 of his 52 years
in prison for armed robberies
and kidnappings for ransom.
At Portela 56.
home of the son of one of the detainees.
part of the loot was found.
938.700 dollars.
30.084 euros. and 80.315 pesos.
We're carrying out seven raids
in the capital city
and province of Buenos Aires.
Long guns and handguns have been seized.
All of them were used in the bank robbery.
This is an intelligence war.
and we intend to win.
The fact that Di Tullio
provided some information
that made some raids
happen earlier than others
doesn't imply the line of investigation
just started with Di Tullio.
The first pieces of evidence
came from a phone number
the perpetrators give to a media outlet.
That phone had an impact
on some phone covers.
And those covers at one time
had other chips.
And a phone comes up
that kept communication
with Vitette Sellanes' family in Uruguay.
with de la Torre's phone shop. and a phone
in Sebastián García Bolster's name.
If Di Tullio hadn't talked.
maybe someone would have later.
But I was imagining it'd be
a few years later. not a few months.
After all this.
the man arrested last Saturday
will be investigated by the district
attorney in charge. Dr. Jorge Apolo.
We're talking about
52-year-old Alberto de la Torre.
I automatically said.
"How much does Di Tullio know about me?"
I remember only having seen her once
when we went to get the truck ready.
So I was pretty calm in a way.
But after a few weeks.
they arrested Sebastián at Villa Gesell.
This is Sebastián Bolster. the man accused
of collaborating with the criminals
to perfect and construct
the tunnel used to commit the robbery
at the Río Bank branch in Acassuso.
I was looking for
the little red dot on my body.
because I imagined them
already targeting me
and that they were gonna come for me.
What I did was wait. Through my lawyers.
I got access to the proceedings
and was finally able to see
what legal action to take.
As the days passed.
I decided to lose weight.
I was 110 kilos on D-Day.
Therefore.
knowing it was very possible
I'd be in a lineup.
I started a strict training regimen
and diet to lose weight.
The truck with the hole was found
completely burnt in Alejandro Korn.
blocks away from the house where
fat Julián was arrested last Saturday.
the man who had driven
the day of the robbery.
After 30 days under arrest.
Sebastián García Bolster
spent the night at his father's house.
What's your occupation?
I fix Jet Skis.
My whole life. I've gone to the river
to try Jet Skis. This is all so crazy.
Regarding his alleged escape
to Villa Gesell.
where he was finally arrested.
he said it was a regular family outing.
I called my lawyers in Argentina
and told them to put me straight.
He boarded a plane.
Aerolíneas Argentinas flight 1213
left at 8:00 a.m. from Montevideo.
But the welcome took place at Aeroparque.
I was in Uruguay
when they robbed the bank!
I was in Montevideo
- Why did you turn yourself in. Mario?
- Why. Mario?
Is he the famous man in the gray suit?
Yes. indeed.
This is the man in the gray suit.
the gang leader. and the mastermind
of this criminal operation
that took place at the bank in Acassuso.
And so days passed
until my file got to me.
It was eight volumes.
Each volume was 200 pages.
It was 1.600 pages.
And trust me.
I've never read something
with as much passion
as I read that file.
I wanted to know what had happened
after such a plan
that went like clockwork.
What went wrong?
And suddenly I realized
they had an arrest warrant out for me.
I see a green car from my hideout.
And I see two people
starting to walk towards me.
Suddenly he points an automatic rifle
at me and says. "National Gendarmerie."
"What are you doing here?" they ask me.
"A spiritual retreat." I say.
But deep down.
I knew it was a lost cause. Why?
Basically because I had
eight volumes of my file there.
"Can we check the tent?"
"All right."
Before he checks. I say.
"Don't waste your time.
I'm Fernando Araujo."
Araujo. were you alone
when the National Gendarmerie found you?
Art.
- What? You were making art?
- Art.
ROBBERY AT RÍO BANK
FUGITIVE ARRESTED IN SAN JUAN
What kind of art?
Tell us.
There it is. All right.
All right. without making any statements.
Araujo got in the truck.
heavily guarded
by the National Gendarmerie.
which will transfer him
to Jáchal Police Station 21
where he will surely be interviewed
by Judge Carlos Mateo.
Overnight. I appear at
the San Isidro Office of Investigations.
But I was calm.
Feet together.
I was incredibly at peace.
Don't ask me why. exactly.
but what happened next was.
in a way. a natural balance.
I got the worst
district attorney's office.
Up.
But I also got
a really good supervisory judge.
And he says. "Fernando.
I'm gonna let you off."
"I'm not putting
an electronic bracelet on you."
"It's house arrest.
but you can go work every day at the gym
to give martial arts classes."
Start of the shoulder blade.
Obviously. the shoulder blade
here determines...
But he escapes
and realizes what I'm gonna do to him.
And. like. 20 days later.
I was suddenly at home. free.
And I was like this
for four years.
Four years later. all those involved
will appear before the court to be judged
for what's called
"the robbery of the century."
2010. trial.
Beto. Zallo. me. Seba.
Marito was in another trial.
which was later shortened.
The four are accused
of both aggravated and armed robbery
due to the use of firearms.
We consider the degree cannot be confirmed
because the guns seized in different raids
do not coincide with the ones used.
which are toy guns.
I think you have to be
pretty naive to believe
JUDICIAL AUTHORITY
such a robbery could be
carried out with two toy guns.
and this is a low-aggression robbery.
The guns that
the bank was taken with were replicas.
It was all designed
so no one would realize.
obviously. they were toy guns.
Let's say. legally. if the guns can shoot.
the sentence is greater
than if the guns don't shoot.
Well. since that was perfectly known.
we tried to make it very clear
what type of legal category
this was gonna fall under.
The guns were real.
The guns were real. I can guarantee it.
No one goes in a bank branch.
knowing there's security.
armed security. alarms.
The person with the apron
had a Browning 2000.
I think he
can't bring himself
to admit they got him with a plastic gun.
That's what...
They humiliated him.
and he didn't like it. you know?
San Isidro. May 21. 2010.
This court. on this day.
aware of the preceding verdict.
unanimously sentences
Rubén Alberto de la Torre
to 15 years in prison.
José Julián Zalloechevarría
to ten years in prison.
Sebastián García Bolster
to nine years in prison.
Fernando Araujo to 14 years in prison.
In the first trial. they'd been sentenced
for armed robbery. for using guns
that were proven to be capable of firing.
What the justice system
finally established
and what they were convicted for
is that the guns were prop guns.
which implies
they weren't capable of firing
or for their specific purpose.
The only benefit. in a way.
that Vitette Sellanes had
was that he'd managed
to miss the trial with his partners.
We made an agreement
for an abbreviated trial.
The sentences he had before were combined.
and he ended up with a single sentence
that also accounted for
all the crimes he'd done around that time.
They sentenced me to 14 years.
but in the end.
I spent a year and a half in jail.
In total. I spent 25 months
in prison or at the police station
and after that.
I spent two years on house arrest.
They gave me 20 years.
what the prosecutor asked for.
The court gave me 15.
and an appeal got it to 12 and a half.
But I served eight and a half.
I got three more years
from a bureaucratic problem
or a vendetta.
But the truth is
I'm not one to use foul language.
I don't give a fuck.
Well. my life changed drastically.
Moreover. after my first release.
I had depression
because I went from being Sebastián.
the motorcycle mechanic.
to Sebastián. the bank robber. let's say.
I went from being a normal person
to. I don't know.
a supervillain. a superhero.
I don't know because
people stopped me and congratulated me.
and I didn't take responsibility.
you know?
I'd say. "No. I don't know
what you're talking about."
As of today.
no amount of money
makes up for the time I lost.
In a year. I do a ton of stuff. and
in a year in jail. I don't do anything.
So when you discover
all that time you lost.
banging your head.
wanting revenge. and going back for more.
you're gonna add up the years.
You lose a whole lifetime this way.
I think it's not worth it.
Hi. Good morning. Beto.
Sorry to bother you.
Do you know a lawyer?
Yeah. look. I'm here in the studio.
The robbery was an adventure.
It was a dream.
It was like winning the world title.
and. well. that's it.
The man in the gray suit was a hit.
I started talking about diamond rings.
a bunch of gold chains.
I don't smoke. but big Cuban cigars.
Some provocative tweet...
15.000 followers on Twitter.
and 20. and now 25.
Two Facebook accounts.
The character is arrogant.
rebellious. provocative.
And the character grew.
Let's see. Pass me a washcloth. please.
Look. Let's do things right.
You say the character.
The character takes off his chains.
his gold. his diamonds.
I remove my dad's little cross.
which is a symbol I cherish a lot.
The character leaves
with a makeup remover wipe.
Done. That's it.
Marito wears jeans
because they get wrecked
working with nitric acid
at his jewelry shop.
And he wears worn-out jeans.
What's the matter?
I burn my hands. I cut my fingers.
I get dirt on the polished ones.
but I'm happy.
There are people who suddenly idolize this
and they see it as. I don't know.
something out of a show.
But let's agree it's not charity work.
It's a robbery. obviously.
It's not charity work.
but all the participants in the story won.
The district attorneys were promoted.
The police officers became commissioners.
The judges were awarded.
The victims got back more than they had.
The game ended with everyone winning.
Did you think this was my studio?
We're magicians.
and sometimes. just sometimes.
we disappear into thin air.
You're not gonna ask me
where the money is. are you?
I can't believe you're so childish.
Saying how much
was actually stolen from Río Bank
is really hard to speculate.
How much money did we take?
Sometimes I start to think about it
and I swear I don't remember.
Did you know weed causes memory problems?
I don't remember exactly.
How much money did you take
from Río Bank in 2006?
I'll answer that immediately.
I understand people's fascination.
journalism. Where is it?
Yeah. in the Cayman Islands in an account.
Write it down. account number 24...
No. that's incredible.
I think people...
What goes on in their subconscious?
You know why they wanna know how much?
Because they say. "Well. I'd do the same."
So. with the formula. they say.
"How much would I do it for?"
"How much would I go to prison for?"
But where is it?
It's great!
It's great.
IN MEMORY OF MY GRANDMA...